# User Manual

## Install and Run Android Applications

Waydroid is able to perform a few various operations found by using the `waydroid app -h` command:

```bash
usage: waydroid app [-h] {install,remove,launch,list} ...

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

subaction:
  {install,remove,launch,list}
    install             push a single package to the container and install it
    remove              remove single app package from the container
    launch              start single application
    list                list installed applications
```

### Install Android Applications

You can install Android applications with:

```bash
waydroid app install xyz.apk
```

Then you can launch the application through your desktop Application Menu.

If you know the Android package name of the app (`com.xxx.yyy`) you can also use the commandline with:

```bash
waydroid app launch com.foo.bar
```

### Notes

The apk files you will sometimes find on the internet tend to only have arm support, and will therefore not work on x86_64.

You may want to install [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org) to get applications graphically. Or use the Play Store if you installed a GAPPS image.

## Common Commands

### Waydroid Command Line Options

Waydroid provides rich command line options to control containers and sessions:

- `waydroid show-full-ui`: Show full Android UI
- `waydroid session start`: Start Waydroid session
- `waydroid session stop`: Stop Waydroid session
- `waydroid container start`: Start Waydroid container
- `waydroid container stop`: Stop Waydroid container
- `waydroid logcat`: View Android logs
- `waydroid shell`: Enter Android shell
- `waydroid prop set <property> <value>`: Set system properties
- `waydroid bugreport`: Generate bug report logs

### System Property Configuration

Various system properties can be configured via the `waydroid prop` command:

- `persist.waydroid.multi_windows`: Enable multi-window mode
- Other properties refer to official documentation

## Advanced Features

### Using Custom Images

To use custom images, follow these steps:

1. Download images from [SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/waydroid/files/images/) or use custom built `system.img` and `vendor.img`
2. Copy images to `/etc/waydroid-extra/images/` directory
3. Re-initialize Waydroid: `sudo waydroid init -f`

### ADB Debugging

Waydroid supports ADB debugging. By default, ADB secure mode is enabled and won't auto-connect on session start. Use the following command to connect:

```bash
waydroid adb connect
```

Then provide authorization on the Android side.

### Notification Forwarding

Waydroid supports forwarding Android notifications to the desktop environment, requiring an updated Android system image to a compatible version.